#summary Methods Footprint to query the API
== Introduction ==
This section describes the available methods of the `SocialContext` object.

*TODO: calls et args*

== Methods ==

=== Utilities ===
*_def get_or_create_social_context(request, platform_id=None)_*

This static method tries to get a Social Context from the user session. If none is found, it creates a new one with the platform_id.

The platform_id is optional and should be omitted only when there is no doubt that a `SocialContext` instance is in the user session. Otherwise, an `Exception` is raised.


*_def get_platforms(request, task)_*

This static method returns the list of platforms that support a specific task. The tasks supported by a platform are set in the Django admin. They can be 'people', 'groups', 'activities_push', 'activities_pull' or 'notifications'.


*_def remove_subscription(request, platform_id)_*

This static method can be used to remove the link between a local user and his remote account on a remote platform. This method also destroy the Social Context if it's related to this platform.


*_def synch_account(self, request, callback, `*`args)_*

This method simply synchronizes a user local account with a remote account on a remote platform. It just call the `_validation_context()´ method to obtains a session with the remote platform.


=== API Calls ===
*_def get_profile(self, request, callback, `*`args)_*

This method returns a `Profile` object created with the data of the user's profile from the remote platform.


*_def get_friends(self, request, callback, matched, `*`args)_*

This method returns a list of friends. If `matched` equals `False`, they are `Profile` objects built from the remote data. If not, a matching on user ids is made to retrieve only the friends that are on the local platform. In this case, a list of `PlatformAccount` is returned.


*_def get_groups(self, request, callback, `*`args)_*

This method returns the list of the user's groups on the remote platform. 


*_def publish_user_action(self, request, callback, template_id, template_data, target_ids=None, `*`args)_*

This method publishes an activity in the user Facebook wall. `template_id` must be the id of a template registered on Facebook and `template_data` the data to fill the template. `target_ids` can be a list of Facebook user ids if the template uses the {`*`target`*`) tag.


*_def send_notifications(self, request, callback, user_ids, text, `*`args)_*

This method sends a notification to a list of users on Facebook. `user_ids` contains the Facebook user ids and `text` the text to send. Links can be added in the notification using the HTML `a` tag.